# CS-360-19646-M01 - Module Eight Journal

1. Briefly summarize the requirements and goals of the app you developed. What user needs was this app designed to address?
* The app (which I decided to name M2A Planner) is designed to be a user-friendly event tracking app that lets users keep track of personalized event lists. After logging in, you're able to add, update, and delete events - with details including the name, time, and date. Keeping the interface simple and concise was one key rule I tried to follow so that it's clear for users how each task can be accomplished.
2. What screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the app? How did your UI designs keep users in mind? Why were your designs successful?
* To meet the all of the user requirements, a login screen, SMS permission screen, event list screen, and add event screen needed to be added. Additionally, a feature to send a text message when a new event is scheduled had to implemented. The design allows the user to very quickly traverse the app and accomplish these tasks while receiving feedback from their input, which is why I personally think they worked well from a design standpoint!
3. How did you approach the process of coding your app? What techniques or strategies did you use? How could those techniques or strategies be applied in the future?
* I worked on the code for my app slowly, finishing each portion before moving on to the next. Working incrementally in this way is something that I've learned has helped to make bigger projects feel less overwhelming, and spending enough time on each module means they can be fully tested and checked for quality without having to rush. I used this for strategy for both comment documentation and code, and absolutely plan to continue using it in the future.
4. How did you test to ensure your code was functional? Why is this process important, and what did it reveal?
* I tested everything manually, making sure every case was covered. For example, for my login screen I tested correct/incorrect logins and existing/new users. For text boxes, I made sure to enter invalid input to check for errors that might occur. Testing every feature thoroughly like this ensures that rare cases won't crash the app during actual use after release. Like the above answer, I also tested screens incrementally and didn't move on until I was happy with each.
5. Consider the full app design and development process from initial planning to finalization. Where did you have to innovate to overcome a challenge?
* In order to make the UI look as closely as possible to my initial design, I had to add gradient colors to buttons. Initially this didn't work as planned, and I found out it was because there was a known bug with current buttons Views. To get around this, I had to convert them to older "Compat" buttons, after which the gradients worked fine. Other than this, creating a new database shell using usernames as a prefix (i.e., user1.event.db) was a simple solution I was proud to figure out/come up with on my own, letting you save multiple event lists on one device.
6. In what specific component of your mobile app were you particularly successful in demonstrating your knowledge, skills, and experience?
* I think that the way events are removed - by making multiple selections and pressing a button - is where I was able to use past Java knowledge as well as new knowledge from this course to come up with a working solution. It involved adding the selected items to a list by their ID (which was stored in their respective checkbox tooltip text attribute) any time one was checked, and removed them if they were unchecked. The remove button iterates through the list and deletes the entries with corresponding IDs.
